.TH NEOTREE 1 "May 2026" "neotree v0.4.0" "General Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
neotree, ntree \- a fast, minimal, developer-focused directory tree CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B neotree
[\fB\-L\fR \fIdepth\fR]
[\fB\-\-ignore\fR \fIpatterns\fR]
[\fB\-\-pattern\fR \fIglob\fR]
[\fB\-\-all\fR]
[\fB\-\-dirs-only\fR]
[\fB\-\-size\fR]
[\fB\-\-sort\fR \fIkey\fR]
[\fB\-\-reverse\fR]
[\fB\-\-stats\fR]
[\fB\-\-find\fR \fIquery\fR]
[\fB\-\-find-dir\fR \fIquery\fR]
[\fB\-\-export-txt\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-\-export-markdown\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-\-no-color\fR]
[\fB\-\-no-dirs-first\fR]
[\fIpath\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B neotree
is a fast, minimal directory tree visualizer written in C99.
It displays a tree layout of directory structures with file type-specific ANSI colors.
It supports depth limitation, custom exclusion ignore patterns, recursive glob filtering, traversal statistics, custom sorting, search find mode, and plain-text or markdown file export.
If a .gitignore file is present in a target directory, its ignore patterns are parsed and applied automatically.
Multiple paths can be passed as arguments, which will be sequentially traversed and rendered.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-L \ depth
Limit display depth. A depth of 1 shows only entries in the root directory.
.TP
.BI \-\-ignore \ patterns
Ignore files or directories by name (comma-separated). Built-in defaults ignore .git, node_modules, __pycache__, target, and build. Additionally, any .gitignore found in target directories is parsed and loaded automatically.
.TP
.BI \-\-pattern \ glob
Show only files matching the recursive glob pattern (e.g. *.c or **/*.h).
.TP
.B \-\-all
Show hidden files and directories (dot-entries).
.TP
.B \-\-dirs-only
Show directories only.
.TP
.B \-\-size
Show file size in KB next to each file.
.TP
.BI \-\-sort \ key
Sort entries within each group (directory-first by default) by key: name (alphabetical, default), size (ascending), or modified (oldest first).
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
Reverse active sort direction (requires \-\-sort to be specified).
.TP
.B \-\-stats
Print traversal statistics (counts of directories, files, total size) and a breakdown of files by extension, sorted by frequency.
.TP
.BI \-\-find \ query
Isolated file search by name/path/glob (comma-separated). Bypasses tree rendering and outputs matching paths.
.TP
.BI \-\-find-dir \ query
Isolated directory search by name/path/glob (comma-separated). Bypasses tree rendering and outputs matching paths.
.TP
.BI \-\-export-txt \ file
Write plain-text tree (no ANSI codes) to file.
.TP
.BI \-\-export-markdown \ file
Write fenced markdown tree to file.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable ANSI color output.
.TP
.B \-\-no-dirs-first
Disable directory-first ordering.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Traverse multiple paths and show traversal statistics:
.IP
.B neotree src tests \-\-stats
.PP
Find all C files recursively:
.IP
.B neotree \-\-find \(aq*.c\(aq
.PP
Filter files by recursive glob:
.IP
.B neotree \-\-pattern \(aq**/*.h\(aq
.PP
Show directory structure only:
.IP
.B neotree \-\-dirs-only
.PP
Sort files by size descending:
.IP
.B neotree \-\-sort size \-\-reverse
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Failure (e.g. invalid options, nonexistent directory).
.SH AUTHOR
Sanket Bharadwaj <https://github.com/bharadwajsanket>
.SH LICENSE
GNU GPL v3.0
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1),
.BR tree (1)
